Clarify the update behaviour for arrays as well as objects (#50)
OAI/Overlay-Specification: versions/1.0.0.md

| Field Name | Type | Description |
| ---- | :----: | ---- |
| <a name="action-target"></a>target | `string` | **REQUIRED** A JSONPath expression selecting nodes in the target document. |
| <a name="action-description"></a>description | `string` | A description of the action. [[CommonMark]] syntax MAY be used for rich text representation. |

> | <a name="action-update"></a>update | Any | If the `target` selects an object node, the value of this field should be an object with the properties and values to merge with the node. If the `target` selects an array, the value of this field should be an entry to append to the array. This field has no impact if the `remove` field of this action object is `true`. |

Reviewer: Is the "merge" shallow or deep? That is, if `target` selects an object and `update` is an object with an object-valued property, is that property's object value _replaced_, or is it also (recursively) _merged_?

Reviewer 2: On line 106 below it says:
> When the Overlay document is applied, the properties in the merge object replace properties in the target object with the same name and new properties are appended to the target object.

Based on that wording, I think the "merge" is actually a shallow merge.

| <a name="action-remove"></a>remove | `boolean` | A boolean value that indicates that the target object is to be removed from the the map or array it is contained in. The default value is `false`. |

> The result of the `target` JSONPath expression must be zero or more objects or arrays (not primitive types or `null` values). If you wish to update or remove a primitive value such as a string, the `target` expression should select the _containing_ object in the target document.

Reviewer: You replace the array with a new one that does not contain the item to remove. Which means you have to know the full array content.

I definitely want to drop this whole paragraph and allow `target` expressions to select any kind of node, including primitive values, but that would be a significant change since the restriction to objects and arrays has been in since the spec document was created more than three years ago.

Opened
* #57 
to track and discuss this.

> The result of the `target` JSONPath expression must be zero or more objects or arrays (not primitive types or `null` values). If you wish to update or remove a primitive value such as a string, the `target` expression should select the _containing_ object in the target document.

Reviewer 2: Then can we just go back to the original wording of that last sentence:
> If you wish to update a primitive value such as a string, the `target` expression should select the _containing_ object in the target document.

> The result of the `target` JSONPath expression must be zero or more objects or arrays (not primitive types or `null` values). If you wish to update or remove a primitive value such as a string, the `target` expression should select the _containing_ object in the target document.

Reviewer: The second example in [Array Modification Examples](https://github.com/OAI/Overlay-Specification/blob/main/versions/1.0.0.md#array-modification-examples) shows how to remove an object from an array:
~~~yaml
overlay: 1.0.0
info:
  title: Remove a array element
  version: 1.0.0
actions:
  - target: $.paths.*.get.parameters[?@.name == 'dummy']
    remove: true
~~~

> The result of the `target` JSONPath expression must be zero or more objects or arrays (not primitive types or `null` values). If you wish to update or remove a primitive value such as a string, the `target` expression should select the _containing_ object in the target document.

Reviewer 2: Got it. You can remove an array element when it is an object using JSON Path filtering.

So do we go back to the original wording for that last sentence? By original wording I mean:
> If you wish to update a primitive value such as a string, the `target` expression should select the _containing_ object in the target document.

We _could_ update this to be even more explicit:
> If you wish to update a primitive value such as a string, the `target` expression should select the _containing_ object in the target document and the action should contain the property with the value to be updated.

> The result of the `target` JSONPath expression must be zero or more objects or arrays (not primitive types or `null` values). If you wish to update or remove a primitive value such as a string, the `target` expression should select the _containing_ object in the target document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The result of the `target` JSONPath expression must be zero or more objects or arrays (not primitive types or `null` values).

To update a primitive property value such as a string, the `target` expression should select the _containing_ object in the target document and `update` should contain an object with the property and its new primitive value.

Similarly for arrays of primitive values: to replace or remove a primitive array item, the `target` expression should select the  object containing the array-valued property and `update` should contain an object with the property and its new array value.
```

Reviewer 2: I think the operation you describe in the last paragraph is simply a replace of an array. Characterizing this as replacing or removing a primitive array item seems misleading to me.

Reviewer: Ok, how about the modified proposal?

Reviewer 2: That looks good! Thank you. Pls commit that and then I'll give it one last pass.

---|:---:|---
<a name="actionTarget"></a>target | `string` | **REQUIRED** A JSONPath query expression referencing the target objects in the target document.
<a name="actionDescription"></a>description | `string` | A description of the action. [CommonMark syntax](https://spec.commonmark.org/) MAY be used for rich text representation.

> <a name="actionUpdate"></a>update | Any | If the `target` is an object, an object with the properties and values to merge with the `target`. If the `target` is an array, an entry to append to the array. To replace an array in its entirety, apply a remove action followed up an update action. This property has no impact if `remove` property is `true`.

Reviewer 3: I think this perhaps requires more context below this table where we can create additional prose. I'm wondering if it should be reworked to give us more space for explanation.

Apologies for being pedantic below.

- `target` needs to be better defined in this context.  Is it the JSONPath query itself? Is it the document the query is using as its source?  Is it the result of the query on the document? What happens if a result contains multiple entries of mixed types?
- JSON has "members" or "name/value pairs", not "properties".
- "To replace an array in its entirety, apply a remove action followed up an update action. This property has no impact if `remove` property is true." This is a little confusing.  I think it means "followed _by_ an update action". The last sentence seemingly contradicts the first, and I think it can be rephrased with more clarity.

I would propose keeping it short here and adding more detail below where we can expand beyond the table format.

Author: Easiest question first, the `target` is the thing two lines up, the target of this action.

I definitely didn't nail the field/property wording, I'll give that another go.

> <a name="actionUpdate"></a>update | Any | If the `target` of this action object is an object, this field should be an object with the properties and values to merge with the `target`. If the `target` of this action is an array, this field should be an entry to append to the array. To replace an array in its entirety, apply a remove action followed by an update action. This field has no impact if the `remove` field of this action object is `true`.

Reviewer: > To replace an array in its entirety, apply a remove action followed by an update action.

This can work if the target is an OAS-defined fixed field or a JSON-Schema-defined keyword and the tool knows whether the target is array- or object-typed.

Or if the tool "remembers" the before-type of target that it deleted. In which case one can't replace an array with a single object, only with a one-item array containing that object.

Is that a real problem?
